#+BEGIN_COMMENT
.. title: Poor Man's Fitbit
.. slug:
.. date: 2018-11-13 11:41:31 GMT
.. tags:
.. category:
.. link:
.. description
.. type: text
#+END_COMMENT

I was interested to hear Richard's views on the Fitbit. Keeping a record of
your activities can be very addictive. Although I do a lot of walking, I am
also a cyclist. I do around 100-150 miles per week, all of which is recorded on
my Garmin 810 and uploaded to various cloud services. I am not competitive, so
I don't care if I have a King of the Mountains Strava segment. However being
able to see exactly where I have been and compare my performance to the last
ride over the same route is highly addictive. Also, I try to cycle at least as
far each month as I did in the same month last year. Knowing that you only have
four days left in a month and you need to cycle another 200km to equal last
year's total is good motivation to get out when it's pouring with rain!

Last year I saw the MiBand, which was only around Â£10, so thought I would give
it a try. It's no FitBit, but is stonkingly good value for money. Battery life
is amazing, often more than 30 days between charges. It records steps and sleep
patterns. The one I have doesn't have an HRM, but there is a slightly more
expensive model that does. It integrates with Google Fit and there are IOS and
Android apps. One feature that I found very useful is the ability to set
different vibration patterns based on your phones notifications. You need the
excellent MiBand tools
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=cz.zdenekhorak.mibandtools to do
this. So for example if I get a text from a family member, I get a different
vibration pattern to a text from anyone else. Very useful when I am out on the
bike and the phone is in my rucksack. If you don't know if a fitness band would
be any use to you, for a small amount of money you can try the MiBand.
